+++
date = "2017-04-03 13:00:00"
title = "DiverSE coffee : Tewfik Ziadi"
abstract = "Tewfik Ziadi is visiting DiverSE for a few days. This is the opportunity for theteam to learn more about Software Product Lines !AbstractSoftware Product Lines(SPLs) represent one of the most exciting paradigm shift in software developmentin the two last decades. However, adopting an SPL approach and designing SPLvariability is still a major challenge and represents a risk for a company.First, compared to single-system development, SPL variability management impliesa methodology that highly impacts the life cycle of the products as well as theprocesses and roles inside the company. Second, adopting an SPL from thebeginning, called proactive SPL adoption is subject to two main assumptions: 1)the company must have, in advance, a complete understanding of the variabilityto anticipate all possible variations; 2) the company should start from scratchto specify the variability and implement the reusable assets.Recent studies with industrial companies that participated in industrial SPLengineering showed that around 50% of them cannot adopt SPL proactively. On theone hand, the variability in these companies is discovered as customer needsemerge over time; so, it is very difficult, if not impossible, to anticipate allthe variations from the beginning. On the other hand, companies already haveexisting product variants that were implemented using an opportunistic reuse inan ad-hoc way to quickly respond to different customer needs. Instead ofadopting an SPL, many companies clone an existing product and modify it to fitthe new customer needs. This approach, called clone-and-own, is widely usedbecause it is faster and more efficient to start with an already developed andtested set of artifacts. Companies thus face the SPL adoption dilemma: they areaware that SPL can enable them to achieve large-scale productivity gains,improve time-to-market and product quality. However, these same companiesalready have existing variants created using the clone-and-own approach.Consequently, they are practically unable to adopt SPL.This talk presents our contributions in what is referred to as extractive SPLadoption. The objective was to propose approaches to migrate existing similarproduct variants, created using the clone-and-own approach, into an SPL. Insteadof designing variability, our work focused on variability inference. The firstpart of our work considered static variability inference, which is based on theanalysis of the structural (or static) information of the product variants,including, for instance, the source code, models, requirements, documentationetc. In addition to the structural information, product variants can also bedefined by the dynamic information on their execution. The execution traces arethe main source of such information. When execution traces are available, it ispossible to analyze them to infer the behavior of these product variants, whichcan be used to infer the SPL behavior. The second part of our work is thusrelated to dynamic variability inference, which refers to variability inferenceusing the dynamic information. Our contributions were implemented and integratedwithin the BUT4Reuse tool. BUT4Reuse is freely available athttps://but4reuse.github.io [https://but4reuse.github.io]Short bio of TewfikZiadi:Tewfik Ziadi is an associate professor at Université Pierre et Marie Curie(UPMC) and a researcher at Laboratoire d’Informatique de Paris 6 (LIP6). Hereceived a Ph.D. from University of Rennnes 1 in 2005 and his habilitation (HDR)in 2016 from University Pierre et Marie Curie. His main research area ofinterest is related to software product lines engineering. This includesvariability management and the extraction of variability from existing legacyartefacts. Hi is the scientific coordinator of the ITEA REVAMP2 European projectwhile the main objectives are related to product line extraction andvisualization. He is also a co-developer of the BUT4Reuse platform for Bottom-Uptechnologies for Reuse.He has authored many peer-reviewed papers on softwareproduct line engineering.He is teaching model-driven and product lineengineering concepts at University of UPMC.The talk will be held in room LesMinquiers at 1:00pm"
abstract_short = "Tewfik Ziadi is visiting DiverSE for a few days. This is the opportunity for theteam to learn more about Software Product Lines !AbstractSoftware Product Lines(SPLs) represent one of the most exciting paradigm shift in software developmentin the two last decades. However, adopting an SPL approach and designing SPLvariability is still a major challenge and represents a risk for a company.First, compared to single-system development, SPL variability management impliesa methodology that highly impacts the life cycle of the products as well as theprocesses and roles inside the company. Second, adopting an SPL from thebeginning, called proactive SPL adoption is subject to two main assumptions: 1)the company must have, in advance, a complete understanding of the variabilityto anticipate all possible variations; 2) the company should start from scratchto specify the variability and implement the reusable assets.Recent studies with industrial companies that participated in industrial SPLengineering showed that around 50% of them cannot adopt SPL proactively. On theone hand, the variability in these companies is discovered as customer needsemerge over time; so, it is very difficult, if not impossible, to anticipate allthe variations from the beginning. On the other hand, companies already haveexisting product variants that were implemented using an opportunistic reuse inan ad-hoc way to quickly respond to different customer needs. Instead ofadopting an SPL, many companies clone an existing product and modify it to fitthe new customer needs. This approach, called clone-and-own, is widely usedbecause it is faster and more efficient to start with an already developed andtested set of artifacts. Companies thus face the SPL adoption dilemma: they areaware that SPL can enable them to achieve large-scale productivity gains,improve time-to-market and product quality. However, these same companiesalready have existing variants created using the clone-and-own approach.Consequently, they are practically unable to adopt SPL.This talk presents our contributions in what is referred to as extractive SPLadoption. The objective was to propose approaches to migrate existing similarproduct variants, created using the clone-and-own approach, into an SPL. Insteadof designing variability, our work focused on variability inference. The firstpart of our work considered static variability inference, which is based on theanalysis of the structural (or static) information of the product variants,including, for instance, the source code, models, requirements, documentationetc. In addition to the structural information, product variants can also bedefined by the dynamic information on their execution. The execution traces arethe main source of such information. When execution traces are available, it ispossible to analyze them to infer the behavior of these product variants, whichcan be used to infer the SPL behavior. The second part of our work is thusrelated to dynamic variability inference, which refers to variability inferenceusing the dynamic information. Our contributions were implemented and integratedwithin the BUT4Reuse tool. BUT4Reuse is freely available athttps://but4reuse.github.io [https://but4reuse.github.io]Short bio of TewfikZiadi:Tewfik Ziadi is an associate professor at Université Pierre et Marie Curie(UPMC) and a researcher at Laboratoire d’Informatique de Paris 6 (LIP6). Hereceived a Ph.D. from University of Rennnes 1 in 2005 and his habilitation (HDR)in 2016 from University Pierre et Marie Curie. His main research area ofinterest is related to software product lines engineering. This includesvariability management and the extraction of variability from existing legacyartefacts. Hi is the scientific coordinator of the ITEA REVAMP2 European projectwhile the main objectives are related to product line extraction andvisualization. He is also a co-developer of the BUT4Reuse platform for Bottom-Uptechnologies for Reuse.He has authored many peer-reviewed papers on softwareproduct line engineering.He is teaching model-driven and product lineengineering concepts at University of UPMC.The talk will be held in room LesMinquiers at 1:00pm"
event = "DiverSE coffee"
event_url = ""
location = "Rennes, France"
selected = false
math = false
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""


[header]

#image = "talks/20171012.png"
caption = "French :fr:"
+++


Tewfik Ziadi is visiting DiverSE for a few days.

This is the opportunity for the team to learn more about Software Product Lines !
<div class=""><em><b class="">Abstract </b></em></div>
<div class=""></div>
<div class="">Software Product Lines (SPLs) represent one of the most exciting paradigm shift in software development in the two last decades.  However, adopting an SPL approach and designing SPL variability is still a major challenge and represents a risk for a company. First, compared to single-system development, SPL variability management implies a methodology that highly impacts the life cycle of the products as well as the processes and roles inside the company. Second, adopting an SPL from the beginning, called proactive SPL adoption is subject to two main assumptions: 1) the company must have, in advance, a complete understanding of the variability to anticipate all possible variations; 2) the company should start from scratch to specify the variability and implement the reusable assets.<br class="" /> <br class="" /> Recent studies with industrial companies that participated in industrial SPL engineering showed that around 50% of them cannot adopt SPL proactively. On the one hand, the variability in these companies is discovered as customer needs emerge over time; so, it is very difficult, if not impossible, to anticipate all the variations from the beginning. On the other hand, companies already have existing product variants that were implemented using an opportunistic reuse in an ad-hoc way to quickly respond to different customer needs. Instead of adopting an SPL, many companies clone an existing product and modify it to fit the new customer needs. This approach, called clone-and-own, is widely used because it is faster and more efficient to start with an already developed and tested set of artifacts. Companies thus face the SPL adoption dilemma: they are aware that SPL can enable them to achieve large-scale productivity gains, improve time-to-market and product quality. However, these same companies already have existing variants created using the clone-and-own approach. Consequently, they are practically unable to adopt SPL.<br class="" /> <br class="" /> This talk presents our contributions in what is referred to as extractive SPL adoption. The objective was to propose approaches to migrate existing similar product variants, created using the clone-and-own approach, into an SPL. Instead of designing variability, our work focused on variability inference. The first part of our work considered static variability inference, which is based on the analysis of the structural (or static) information of the product variants, including, for instance, the source code, models, requirements, documentation etc.  In addition to the structural information, product variants can also be defined by the dynamic information on their execution. The execution traces are the main source of such information. When execution traces are available, it is possible to analyze them to infer the behavior of these product variants, which can be used to infer the SPL behavior. The second part of our work is thus related to dynamic variability inference, which refers to variability inference using the dynamic information. Our contributions were implemented and integrated within the BUT4Reuse tool. BUT4Reuse is freely available at <span id="OBJ_PREFIX_DWT1216_com_zimbra_url" class="Object"><span id="OBJ_PREFIX_DWT1223_com_zimbra_url" class="Object"><a class="" href="https://but4reuse.github.io" target="_blank">https://but4reuse.github.io</a></span></span></div>
<div class=""></div>
<div class="">
<div class=""><b>Short bio of <span class="">Tewfik Ziadi</span></b>:</div>
<div class=""></div>
<div class=""><span class="">Tewfik Ziadi is an associate professor  at Université Pierre et Marie Curie (UPMC) and a researcher at Laboratoire d’Informatique de Paris 6 (LIP6). He received a Ph.D. from University of Rennnes 1 in 2005 and his habilitation (HDR) in 2016 from University Pierre et Marie Curie. His main research area of interest is related to software product lines engineering. This includes variability management and the extraction of variability from existing legacy artefacts. Hi is the scientific coordinator of the ITEA REVAMP2 European project while the main objectives are related to product line extraction and visualization. He is also a co-developer of the BUT4Reuse platform for Bottom-Up technologies for Reuse. </span><span class="">He has authored many peer-reviewed papers on software product line engineering. </span><span class="">He is teaching  model-driven and product line engineering concepts at University of UPMC.</span></div>
</div>
<div class=""></div>
<div class="">The talk will be held in room <strong>Les Minquiers</strong> at <strong>1:00pm</strong></div>
