+++
date = "2016-05-19 13:00:00"
title = "Diverse Coffee : Paul Temple"
abstract = "This week, Paul will present the method he submitted to the SPLC conferencewhich uses Machine Learning to Infer Constraints for Product Lines.Abstract :Variability intensive systems may include several thousand features allowing foran enormous number of possible configurations, including wrong ones (e.g. thederived product does not compile). For years, engineers have been usingconstraints to a priori restrict the space of possible configurations, i.e. toexclude configurations that would violate these constraints. The challenge is tofind the set of constraints that would be both precise (allow all correctconfigurations) and complete (never allow a wrong configuration with respect tosome oracle). We propose the use of a machine learning approach to infer suchproduct-line constraints from an oracle that is able to assess whether a givenproduct is correct."
abstract_short = "This week, Paul will present the method he submitted to the SPLC conferencewhich uses Machine Learning to Infer Constraints for Product Lines.Abstract :Variability intensive systems may include several thousand features allowing foran enormous number of possible configurations, including wrong ones (e.g. thederived product does not compile). For years, engineers have been usingconstraints to a priori restrict the space of possible configurations, i.e. toexclude configurations that would violate these constraints. The challenge is tofind the set of constraints that would be both precise (allow all correctconfigurations) and complete (never allow a wrong configuration with respect tosome oracle). We propose the use of a machine learning approach to infer suchproduct-line constraints from an oracle that is able to assess whether a givenproduct is correct."
event = "DiverSE coffee"
event_url = ""
location = "Rennes, France"
selected = false
math = false
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""


[header]

#image = "talks/20171012.png"
caption = "French :fr:"
+++


This week, Paul will present the method he submitted to the SPLC conference which uses Machine Learning to Infer Constraints for Product Lines.

<strong>Abstract</strong> :

Variability intensive systems may include several thousand features allowing for an enormous number of possible configurations, including wrong ones (e.g. the derived product does not compile). For years, engineers have been using constraints to a priori restrict the space of possible configurations, i.e. to exclude configurations that would violate these constraints. The challenge is to find the set of constraints
that would be both precise (allow all correct configurations) and complete (never allow a wrong configuration with respect to some oracle). We propose the use
of a machine learning approach to infer such product-line constraints from an oracle that is able to assess whether a given product is correct.
