+++
date = "2015-10-22 13:00:00"
title = "22-10-2015 - Diverse Coffee"
abstract = "Let's help Thomas with his slides for SLE this Thursday at 13.00 as usual.Domain-Specific Languages (DSLs) are now developed for a wide variety ofdomains to address specific concerns in the development of complex systems. Whenengineering new DSLs, it is likely that previous efforts spent on thedevelopment of other languages could be leveraged, especially when their domainsoverlap. However, legacy DSLs may not fit exactly the end user requirements andthus require further extension, restriction, or specialization. While currentlanguage workbenches provide import mechanisms, they usually lack an explicitsupport for such customizations of imported artifacts. In this talk, we proposean approach for building DSLs by safely assembling and customizing legacy DSLsartifacts. This approach is based on typing relations that provide a reasoninglayer for manipulating DSLs while ensuring type safety. On top of this reasoninglayer, we provide an algebra of operators for extending, restricting, andassembling separate DSL artifacts. We implemented the typing relations andalgebra into the Melange meta- language. We illustrate Melange through themodular definition of an executable modeling language for the Internet Of Thingsdomain."
abstract_short = "Let's help Thomas with his slides for SLE this Thursday at 13.00 as usual.Domain-Specific Languages (DSLs) are now developed for a wide variety ofdomains to address specific concerns in the development of complex systems. Whenengineering new DSLs, it is likely that previous efforts spent on thedevelopment of other languages could be leveraged, especially when their domainsoverlap. However, legacy DSLs may not fit exactly the end user requirements andthus require further extension, restriction, or specialization. While currentlanguage workbenches provide import mechanisms, they usually lack an explicitsupport for such customizations of imported artifacts. In this talk, we proposean approach for building DSLs by safely assembling and customizing legacy DSLsartifacts. This approach is based on typing relations that provide a reasoninglayer for manipulating DSLs while ensuring type safety. On top of this reasoninglayer, we provide an algebra of operators for extending, restricting, andassembling separate DSL artifacts. We implemented the typing relations andalgebra into the Melange meta- language. We illustrate Melange through themodular definition of an executable modeling language for the Internet Of Thingsdomain."
event = "DiverSE coffee"
event_url = ""
location = "Rennes, France"
selected = false
math = false
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""


[header]

#image = "talks/20171012.png"
caption = "French :fr:"
+++


Let's help Thomas with his slides for SLE this Thursday at 13.00 as usual. 

"Domain-Specific Languages (DSLs) are now developed for a wide variety
of domains to address specific concerns in the development of complex
systems. When engineering new DSLs, it is likely that previous efforts spent on
the development of other languages could be leveraged, especially when
their domains overlap. However, legacy DSLs may not fit exactly the end user requirements and
thus require further extension, restriction, or specialization.
While current language workbenches provide import mechanisms, they
usually lack an explicit support for such customizations of imported
artifacts. In this talk, we propose an approach for building DSLs by safely
assembling and customizing legacy DSLs artifacts.
This approach is based on typing relations that provide a reasoning
layer for manipulating DSLs while ensuring type safety. On top of this
reasoning layer, we provide an algebra of operators for extending,
restricting, and assembling separate DSL artifacts.
We implemented the typing relations and algebra into the Melange meta-
language. We illustrate Melange through the modular definition of an
executable modeling language for the Internet Of Things domain."
