+++
date = "2017-04-20 13:00:00"
title = "DiverSE Coffee: Arnaud Blouin"
abstract = "After his talk [http://diverse.irisa.fr/new-coffee/diverse-coffee-arnaud/], sometime ago, about UI code analysis for design smells detection, we are happy toannounce the return of Arnaud Blouin to report on his latest advances in thistopic. Particularly, Arnaud will introduce one particular UI design smell he hasfound in previous work: the Blob Listener. Later, he will explain how toautomatically refactor Blob Listener instances, then elaborate on thedifficulties faced while using statistical tests during the analyses of theresults. If you want to learn more about this topic, come and see for yourself!Bio:Arnaud Blouin is an associate professor at the National Institutes ofApplied Sciences (INSA Rennes), France, since September 2011, doing research inthe DiverSE team called Triskell) at Inria / IRISA, Rennes. Arnaud develops aresearch activity in the field of software engineering with a focus on userinterface (UI) engineering and model-driven engineering (MDE). He currentlyworks on the validation and maintenance of user interfaces, with a focus on theuse of software testing and code analysis techniques to produce, asautomatically as possible, UI tests and detect bad UI coding practices. HisMDE-activities investigate how to assemble and customise domain-specificlanguages, and how to leverage model slicing techniques.Abstract:User Interfaces(UIs) intensively rely on event-driven programming: widgets send UI events,which capture users' interactions, to dedicated objects called controllers.Controllers use several UI listeners that handle these events to produce UIcommands. First, we reveal the presence of design smells in the code thatdescribes and controls UIs. Second, we demonstrate that specific code analysesare necessary to analyze and refactor UI code, because of its coupling with therest of the code. We conducted an empirical study on four large Java Swing andSWT open-source software systems: Eclipse, JabRef, ArgouML , and FreeCol. Westudy to what extent the number of UI commands that a UI listener can producehas an impact on the change-and fault-proneness of the UI listener code. Wedevelop a static code analysis for detecting UI commands in the code. Weidentify a new type of design smell, called Blob listener that characterizes UIlisteners that can produce more than two UI commands. We propose a systematicstatic code analysis procedure that searches for Blob listener that we implementin InspectorGuidget. We conducted experiments on the four software systems forwhich we manually identified 53 instances of Blob listener. InspectorGuidgetsuccessfully detected 52 Blob listeners out of 53. The results exhibit aprecision of 81.25 % and a recall of 98.11 %. We then developed asemi-automatically and behavior-preserving refactoring process to remove Bloblisteners. 49.06 % of the 53 Blob listeners were automatically refactored.Patches for JabRef, and FreeCol have been accepted and merged. Discussions withdevelopers of the four software systems assess the relevance of the Bloblistener."
abstract_short = "After his talk [http://diverse.irisa.fr/new-coffee/diverse-coffee-arnaud/], sometime ago, about UI code analysis for design smells detection, we are happy toannounce the return of Arnaud Blouin to report on his latest advances in thistopic. Particularly, Arnaud will introduce one particular UI design smell he hasfound in previous work: the Blob Listener. Later, he will explain how toautomatically refactor Blob Listener instances, then elaborate on thedifficulties faced while using statistical tests during the analyses of theresults. If you want to learn more about this topic, come and see for yourself!Bio:Arnaud Blouin is an associate professor at the National Institutes ofApplied Sciences (INSA Rennes), France, since September 2011, doing research inthe DiverSE team called Triskell) at Inria / IRISA, Rennes. Arnaud develops aresearch activity in the field of software engineering with a focus on userinterface (UI) engineering and model-driven engineering (MDE). He currentlyworks on the validation and maintenance of user interfaces, with a focus on theuse of software testing and code analysis techniques to produce, asautomatically as possible, UI tests and detect bad UI coding practices. HisMDE-activities investigate how to assemble and customise domain-specificlanguages, and how to leverage model slicing techniques.Abstract:User Interfaces(UIs) intensively rely on event-driven programming: widgets send UI events,which capture users' interactions, to dedicated objects called controllers.Controllers use several UI listeners that handle these events to produce UIcommands. First, we reveal the presence of design smells in the code thatdescribes and controls UIs. Second, we demonstrate that specific code analysesare necessary to analyze and refactor UI code, because of its coupling with therest of the code. We conducted an empirical study on four large Java Swing andSWT open-source software systems: Eclipse, JabRef, ArgouML , and FreeCol. Westudy to what extent the number of UI commands that a UI listener can producehas an impact on the change-and fault-proneness of the UI listener code. Wedevelop a static code analysis for detecting UI commands in the code. Weidentify a new type of design smell, called Blob listener that characterizes UIlisteners that can produce more than two UI commands. We propose a systematicstatic code analysis procedure that searches for Blob listener that we implementin InspectorGuidget. We conducted experiments on the four software systems forwhich we manually identified 53 instances of Blob listener. InspectorGuidgetsuccessfully detected 52 Blob listeners out of 53. The results exhibit aprecision of 81.25 % and a recall of 98.11 %. We then developed asemi-automatically and behavior-preserving refactoring process to remove Bloblisteners. 49.06 % of the 53 Blob listeners were automatically refactored.Patches for JabRef, and FreeCol have been accepted and merged. Discussions withdevelopers of the four software systems assess the relevance of the Bloblistener."
event = "DiverSE coffee"
event_url = ""
location = "Rennes, France"
selected = false
math = false
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""


[header]

#image = "talks/20171012.png"
caption = "French :fr:"
+++


After his <a href="http://diverse.irisa.fr/new-coffee/diverse-coffee-arnaud/">talk</a>, some time ago, about UI code analysis for design smells detection, we are happy to announce the return of Arnaud Blouin to report on his latest advances in this topic.  Particularly, Arnaud will introduce one particular UI design smell he has found in previous work: the Blob Listener.  Later, he will explain how to automatically refactor Blob Listener instances, then elaborate on the difficulties faced while using statistical tests during the analyses of the results.

If you want to learn more about this topic, come and see for yourself!

<strong>Bio:</strong>
Arnaud Blouin is an associate professor at the National Institutes of Applied Sciences (INSA Rennes), France, since September 2011, doing research in the DiverSE team called Triskell) at Inria / IRISA, Rennes.

Arnaud develops a research activity in the field of software engineering with a focus on user interface (UI) engineering and model-driven engineering (MDE).
He currently works on the validation and maintenance of user interfaces, with a focus on the use of software testing and code analysis techniques to produce, as automatically as possible, UI tests and detect bad UI coding practices.
His MDE-activities investigate how to assemble and customise domain-specific languages, and how to leverage model slicing techniques.

<strong>Abstract:</strong>
User Interfaces (UIs) intensively rely on event-driven programming: widgets send UI events, which capture users' interactions, to dedicated objects called controllers. Controllers use several UI listeners that handle these events to produce UI commands. First, we reveal the presence of design smells in the code that describes and controls UIs. Second, we demonstrate that specific code analyses are necessary to analyze and refactor UI code, because of its coupling with the rest of the code. We conducted an empirical study on four large Java Swing and SWT open-source software systems: Eclipse, JabRef, ArgouML , and FreeCol. We study to what extent the number of UI commands that a UI listener can produce has an impact on the change-and fault-proneness of the UI listener code. We develop a static code analysis for detecting UI commands in the code.
We identify a new type of design smell, called Blob listener that characterizes UI listeners that can produce more than two UI commands. We propose a systematic static code analysis procedure that searches for Blob listener that we implement in InspectorGuidget. We conducted experiments on the four software systems for which we manually identified 53 instances of Blob listener. InspectorGuidget successfully detected 52 Blob listeners out of 53. The results exhibit a precision of 81.25 % and a recall of 98.11 %. We then developed a semi-automatically and behavior-preserving refactoring process to remove Blob listeners. 49.06 % of the 53 Blob listeners were automatically refactored. Patches for JabRef, and FreeCol have been accepted and merged. Discussions with developers of the four software systems assess the relevance of the Blob listener.
