+++
date = "2017-12-07 13:00:00"
title = "DiverSE Coffee: Nguepi Armando"
abstract = "The story Testing Configurable Software continues with a presentation staringNguepi Armando. Armando is pursuing his Master's degree in Software Engineeringat the University of Namur in Belgium. He is spending his last semesterinterning in the DiverSE team, under the supervision of Mathieu Archer, for theperiod of October 1st until January 31st. The topic of his internship orbitsaround testing configurable software. Enters Armando: How to test configurablesoftware? In this presentation, we describe an approach using variabilitytechniques to test configurable software. We apply this approach to aweb-application generator, JHipster. The first part of the presentationdescribes configurable software exemplified by JHipster while illustrating whyit is a good candidate. The second part presents previous work and results. Thelast part of presentation describes our work that consists to replicate previouswork on another version of JHipster and evaluate and report the efforts toupdate tests infrastructure built in previous work, according to the evolutionof JHipster. We also want to give information to help automatize JHipstertesting. The presentation is held Thursday 7th in room Minquiers at 1 p.m."
abstract_short = "The story Testing Configurable Software continues with a presentation staringNguepi Armando. Armando is pursuing his Master's degree in Software Engineeringat the University of Namur in Belgium. He is spending his last semesterinterning in the DiverSE team, under the supervision of Mathieu Archer, for theperiod of October 1st until January 31st. The topic of his internship orbitsaround testing configurable software. Enters Armando: How to test configurablesoftware? In this presentation, we describe an approach using variabilitytechniques to test configurable software. We apply this approach to aweb-application generator, JHipster. The first part of the presentationdescribes configurable software exemplified by JHipster while illustrating whyit is a good candidate. The second part presents previous work and results. Thelast part of presentation describes our work that consists to replicate previouswork on another version of JHipster and evaluate and report the efforts toupdate tests infrastructure built in previous work, according to the evolutionof JHipster. We also want to give information to help automatize JHipstertesting. The presentation is held Thursday 7th in room Minquiers at 1 p.m."
event = "DiverSE coffee"
event_url = ""
location = "Rennes, France"
selected = false
math = false
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""


[header]

#image = "talks/20171012.png"
caption = "French :fr:"
+++


The story "Testing Configurable Software" continues with a presentation staring Nguepi Armando.

Armando is pursuing his Master's degree in Software Engineering at the University of Namur in Belgium.
He is spending his last semester interning in the DiverSE team, under the supervision of Mathieu Archer, for the period of October 1st until January 31st.
The topic of his internship orbits around testing configurable software.

Enters Armando:
"How to test configurable software?
In this presentation, we describe an approach using variability techniques to test configurable software. We apply this approach to a web-application generator, JHipster.
The first part of the presentation describes configurable software exemplified by JHipster while illustrating why it is a good candidate.
The second part presents previous work and results. The last part of presentation describes our work that consists to replicate previous work on another version of JHipster and evaluate and report the efforts to update tests infrastructure built in previous work, according to the evolution of JHipster. We also want to give information to help automatize JHipster testing."

The presentation is held Thursday 7th in room Minquiers at 1 p.m.
