+++
date = "2017-11-16 13:00:00"
title = "DiverSE Coffee: François Fouquet"
abstract = "We are pleased to have François Fouquet, a Triskell-veteran, as a speaker forour next DiverSE Coffee.The research interests of François orbits arounddesigning and applying novel software engineering methods to build distributedand large-scale machine learning powered smart systems. Since he defended histhesis entitled Model@Runtime for continuous development of heterogeneousdistributed adaptive systems, he has been focusing on the construction oftime-aware systems, leveraging innovative solutions to represent temporal datausing physics quantum theory to better distributed massive models. His findingsare mainly applied to the construction of SmartGrid systems, able for instance,to detect/predict suspicious or overload values.Place for Intelligent systems,he is also working on implanting machine learning techniques into temporal datastructures in order to reveal synergies between Big Data, forecasting systems,and simulation mechanisms. This topic will be the focus of his DiverSE Coffeepresentation.Enters François:Advances in software, embedded computing, sensors,and networking technologies will lead to a new generation of smartcyber-physical systems. Such systems have to continuously monitor and collectdata from physical processes in order to make decisions fast, i.e., in live.However, the complex nature combined with the massive amount of data generatedby such systems impose fundamental challenges. Smart grids are excellentillustrations of such systems. They combine novel country-wide communicationmedia together with many energy sensors to enable the next generation ofsustainable infrastructure, including renewable energies. For instance, on-fieldgrid operators can now leverage these newly collected data to empower livesimulation tools that allow them to foresee the impacts of maintenance actionsbefore their actual application on the real grid. However, developing suchsoftware systems, at the crossroad of big data, modelling and simulation is verychallenging. In collaboration with the main electricity grid operator inLuxembourg, we have developed a novel analytic approach to process such complexdata on live.The presentation is held in Room Markov, at 1 p.m."
abstract_short = "We are pleased to have François Fouquet, a Triskell-veteran, as a speaker forour next DiverSE Coffee.The research interests of François orbits arounddesigning and applying novel software engineering methods to build distributedand large-scale machine learning powered smart systems. Since he defended histhesis entitled Model@Runtime for continuous development of heterogeneousdistributed adaptive systems, he has been focusing on the construction oftime-aware systems, leveraging innovative solutions to represent temporal datausing physics quantum theory to better distributed massive models. His findingsare mainly applied to the construction of SmartGrid systems, able for instance,to detect/predict suspicious or overload values.Place for Intelligent systems,he is also working on implanting machine learning techniques into temporal datastructures in order to reveal synergies between Big Data, forecasting systems,and simulation mechanisms. This topic will be the focus of his DiverSE Coffeepresentation.Enters François:Advances in software, embedded computing, sensors,and networking technologies will lead to a new generation of smartcyber-physical systems. Such systems have to continuously monitor and collectdata from physical processes in order to make decisions fast, i.e., in live.However, the complex nature combined with the massive amount of data generatedby such systems impose fundamental challenges. Smart grids are excellentillustrations of such systems. They combine novel country-wide communicationmedia together with many energy sensors to enable the next generation ofsustainable infrastructure, including renewable energies. For instance, on-fieldgrid operators can now leverage these newly collected data to empower livesimulation tools that allow them to foresee the impacts of maintenance actionsbefore their actual application on the real grid. However, developing suchsoftware systems, at the crossroad of big data, modelling and simulation is verychallenging. In collaboration with the main electricity grid operator inLuxembourg, we have developed a novel analytic approach to process such complexdata on live.The presentation is held in Room Markov, at 1 p.m."
event = "DiverSE coffee"
event_url = ""
location = "Rennes, France"
selected = false
math = false
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""


[header]

#image = "talks/20171012.png"
caption = "French :fr:"
+++


<div>We are pleased to have François Fouquet, a Triskell-veteran, as a speaker for our next DiverSE Coffee.</div>
<div></div>
<div>The research interests of François orbits around designing and applying novel software engineering methods to build distributed and large-scale machine learning powered smart systems. Since he defended his thesis entitled "Model@Runtime for continuous development of heterogeneous distributed adaptive systems", he has been focusing on the construction of time-aware systems, leveraging innovative solutions to represent temporal data using physics quantum theory to better distributed massive models. His findings are mainly applied to the construction of SmartGrid systems, able for instance, to detect/predict suspicious or overload values.</div>
<div>Place for Intelligent systems, he is also working on implanting machine learning techniques into temporal data structures in order to reveal synergies between Big Data, forecasting systems, and simulation mechanisms. This topic will be the focus of his DiverSE Coffee presentation.</div>
<div></div>
<div></div>
<div></div>
<div>Enters François:</div>
<div>"Advances in software, embedded computing, sensors, and networking technologies will lead to a new generation of smart cyber-physical systems. Such systems have to continuously monitor and collect data from physical processes in order to make decisions fast, i.e., in live. However, the complex nature combined with the massive amount of data generated by such systems impose fundamental challenges. Smart grids are excellent illustrations of such systems. They combine novel country-wide communication media together with many energy sensors to enable the next generation of sustainable infrastructure, including renewable energies. For instance, on-field grid operators can now leverage these newly collected data to empower live simulation tools that allow them to foresee the impacts of maintenance actions before their actual application on the real grid. However, developing such software systems, at the crossroad of big data, modelling and simulation is very challenging. In collaboration with the main electricity grid operator in Luxembourg, we have developed a novel analytic approach to process such complex data on live."</div>
<div></div>
<div>The presentation is held in Room Markov, at 1 p.m.</div>
