+++
date = "2017-02-28 09:00:00"
title = "Workshop Software Engineering for Sustainability"
abstract = "Our team organizes a workshop on « Software Engineering for Sustainability »together with Lancaster University. The workshop will last for 2 days. It willtake place in rooms Petri and Turing. Here is the program of the first day :Feb.28: 09:00 - 09:30: Welcome coffee09:30 - 10:30: TBA (from Lancaster)10:30 -11:00: coffee break11:00 - 12:00: Weighting observations and models to assessthe uncertain fate of nitrates in the environment (Jean-Raynald de Dreuzy,Géosciences Rennes, OSUR) * Increasing quantities of fertilizers delivered to   soils have deeply modified the cycle of some elements like nitrogen. This is   a complex societal and scientific issue difficult to handle because of the   high temporal and special variabilities and uncertainties on the natural   processes of transfer and degradation in the different hydrological   compartments. The rapid development of sensors is however modifying the   relation between data and models with new prediction opportunities. Classical   mechanistic models become increasingly limited as the sole intermediary   between data and predictions. The OSUR in Rennes (a federation of research   units on environmental sciences) coordinates a number of projects on this   type of question from field characterization to the development of innovative   modeling capacities. Central in our research strategy is the consolidation of   field observatories. Coupled virtual observatories have been proposed for   complementary analysis.12:00 - 14:00: lunch at IRISA14:00 - 14:30: Presentation of the DiverSE team,and perspectives (B. Baudry, Inria)14:30 - 15:00: Approximate computing (B.Baudry, Inria)15:00 - 15:30: Language-Oriented Modeling (B. Combemale, IRISA,UR1) * Model-Driven Engineering (MDE) encompasses the identification of added-value   domain knowledge, and Software Language Engineering (SLE) covers the   technical activities to turn such a domain knowledge into customized   Domain-Specific Languages (DSLs). However, the interplay between both is   still challenging: how to turn application-level and business knowledge into   added-value DSMLs? How to scale-up with their multiplication due to the   various stakeholders and application domains of interest? I will review a   decade of research activities dedicated to these questions. The challenge is   twofold: to capture domain-specific knowledge into added-value DSLs while   supporting their possible reuse and customization in other contexts; and to   support the separation of concerns through the use of multiple DSLs while   ensuring their automatic and correct integration.15:30 - 16:00: coffee break16:00 - 16:30: Automated Specialization ofConfigurable Systems (M. Acher, IRISA, UR1)16:30 - 17:00: Distributed adaptivesystems with Models@runtime using Kevoree (O. Barais, IRISA, UR1) * Modern   software applications are distributed and often operate in dynamic contexts,   where requirements, assumptions about the environment,and usage profiles   continuously change. These changes are difficult to predict and to anticipate   at design time. The running software system should thus be able to react on   its own, by dynamically adapting its behavior, in order to sustain a required   quality ofservice. A key challenge is to provide the system with the   necessary flexibility to perform self-adaptation, without compromising   dependability. Models@Runtime is a paradigm aiming at transferring   traditional modeling activities (focusing on quality, verification, and so   on) performed by humans, to the running system. In this trend, Kevoree   provides a models@runtime platform to design heterogeneous, distributed and   adaptive applications based on the component based software engineering   paradigm. Our goal on this talk is to discuss why models@runtime can help to   provide generic solution for bulding reconfigurable system.17:00 - 17:30: Building energy model to support efficient renewable-energymanagement (J. Bourcier, IRISA, UR1) * We lead different activities to provide   methodology to build consumption and production model using machine-nearning   techniques. Through the collaboration with 3 different partners, we explore   how we can provide efficient energy models.20:00-23:00: dinner (information to be added)"
abstract_short = "Our team organizes a workshop on « Software Engineering for Sustainability »together with Lancaster University. The workshop will last for 2 days. It willtake place in rooms Petri and Turing. Here is the program of the first day :Feb.28: 09:00 - 09:30: Welcome coffee09:30 - 10:30: TBA (from Lancaster)10:30 -11:00: coffee break11:00 - 12:00: Weighting observations and models to assessthe uncertain fate of nitrates in the environment (Jean-Raynald de Dreuzy,Géosciences Rennes, OSUR) * Increasing quantities of fertilizers delivered to   soils have deeply modified the cycle of some elements like nitrogen. This is   a complex societal and scientific issue difficult to handle because of the   high temporal and special variabilities and uncertainties on the natural   processes of transfer and degradation in the different hydrological   compartments. The rapid development of sensors is however modifying the   relation between data and models with new prediction opportunities. Classical   mechanistic models become increasingly limited as the sole intermediary   between data and predictions. The OSUR in Rennes (a federation of research   units on environmental sciences) coordinates a number of projects on this   type of question from field characterization to the development of innovative   modeling capacities. Central in our research strategy is the consolidation of   field observatories. Coupled virtual observatories have been proposed for   complementary analysis.12:00 - 14:00: lunch at IRISA14:00 - 14:30: Presentation of the DiverSE team,and perspectives (B. Baudry, Inria)14:30 - 15:00: Approximate computing (B.Baudry, Inria)15:00 - 15:30: Language-Oriented Modeling (B. Combemale, IRISA,UR1) * Model-Driven Engineering (MDE) encompasses the identification of added-value   domain knowledge, and Software Language Engineering (SLE) covers the   technical activities to turn such a domain knowledge into customized   Domain-Specific Languages (DSLs). However, the interplay between both is   still challenging: how to turn application-level and business knowledge into   added-value DSMLs? How to scale-up with their multiplication due to the   various stakeholders and application domains of interest? I will review a   decade of research activities dedicated to these questions. The challenge is   twofold: to capture domain-specific knowledge into added-value DSLs while   supporting their possible reuse and customization in other contexts; and to   support the separation of concerns through the use of multiple DSLs while   ensuring their automatic and correct integration.15:30 - 16:00: coffee break16:00 - 16:30: Automated Specialization ofConfigurable Systems (M. Acher, IRISA, UR1)16:30 - 17:00: Distributed adaptivesystems with Models@runtime using Kevoree (O. Barais, IRISA, UR1) * Modern   software applications are distributed and often operate in dynamic contexts,   where requirements, assumptions about the environment,and usage profiles   continuously change. These changes are difficult to predict and to anticipate   at design time. The running software system should thus be able to react on   its own, by dynamically adapting its behavior, in order to sustain a required   quality ofservice. A key challenge is to provide the system with the   necessary flexibility to perform self-adaptation, without compromising   dependability. Models@Runtime is a paradigm aiming at transferring   traditional modeling activities (focusing on quality, verification, and so   on) performed by humans, to the running system. In this trend, Kevoree   provides a models@runtime platform to design heterogeneous, distributed and   adaptive applications based on the component based software engineering   paradigm. Our goal on this talk is to discuss why models@runtime can help to   provide generic solution for bulding reconfigurable system.17:00 - 17:30: Building energy model to support efficient renewable-energymanagement (J. Bourcier, IRISA, UR1) * We lead different activities to provide   methodology to build consumption and production model using machine-nearning   techniques. Through the collaboration with 3 different partners, we explore   how we can provide efficient energy models.20:00-23:00: dinner (information to be added)"
event = "DiverSE coffee"
event_url = ""
location = "Rennes, France"
selected = false
math = false
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""


[header]

#image = "talks/20171012.png"
caption = "French :fr:"
+++


Our team organizes a workshop on « Software Engineering for Sustainability » together with Lancaster University.

The workshop will last for 2 days.

It will take place in rooms <strong>Petri</strong> and <strong>Turing</strong>.

Here is the program of the first day :

<span class="b"><strong>Feb. 28</strong><b>:</b></span>
<div id="magicdomid6" class=""><span class="i"><i> 09:00 - 09:30: Welcome coffee</i></span></div>
<div id="magicdomid7" class=""><span class="">   09:30 - 10:30: </span><span class="b i"><b><i>TBA</i></b></span><span class=""> (from Lancaster)</span></div>
<div id="magicdomid8" class=""><span class="i"><i>   10:30 - 11:00: coffee break</i></span></div>
<div id="magicdomid9" class=""><span class="">   11:00 - 12:00: </span><span class="b"><b>Weighting observations and models to assess the uncertain fate of nitrates in the environment</b></span><span class=""> (Jean-Raynald de Dreuzy, Géosciences Rennes, OSUR)</span></div>
<div id="magicdomid10" class=""><span class="">   </span></div>
<div id="magicdomid11" class="">
<ul class="list-indent2">
 	<li><span class="">Increasing quantities of fertilizers delivered to soils have deeply modified the cycle of some elements like nitrogen. This is a complex societal and scientific issue difficult to handle because of the high temporal and special variabilities and uncertainties on the natural processes of transfer and degradation in the different hydrological compartments. The rapid development of sensors is however modifying the relation between data and models with new prediction opportunities. Classical mechanistic models become increasingly limited as the sole intermediary between data and predictions. The OSUR in Rennes (a federation of research units on environmental sciences) coordinates a number of projects on this type of question from field characterization to the development of innovative modeling capacities. Central in our research strategy is the consolidation of field observatories. Coupled virtual observatories have been proposed for complementary analysis.</span></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div id="magicdomid12" class=""></div>
<div id="magicdomid13" class=""><span class="i"><i>   12:00 - 14:00: lunch at IRISA</i></span></div>
<div id="magicdomid14" class=""></div>
<div id="magicdomid15" class=""><span class="">   14:00 - 14:30: </span><span class="b"><b>Presentation of the DiverSE team, and perspectives</b></span><span class=""> (B. Baudry, Inria)</span></div>
<div id="magicdomid16" class=""><span class="">   14:30 - 15:00: </span><span class="b"><b>Approximate computing</b></span><span class=""> (B. Baudry, Inria)</span></div>
<div id="magicdomid17" class=""><span class="">   15:00 - 15:30: </span><span class="b"><b>Language-Oriented Modeling</b></span><span class=""> (B. Combemale, IRISA, UR1)</span></div>
<div id="magicdomid18" class=""></div>
<div id="magicdomid19" class="">
<ul class="list-indent2">
 	<li><span class="i"><i>Model-Driven Engineering</i></span><span class=""> (MDE) encompasses the identification of added-value domain knowledge, and </span><span class="i"><i>Software Language Engineering</i></span><span class=""> (SLE) covers the technical activities to turn such a domain knowledge into customized Domain-Specific Languages (DSLs). However, the interplay between both is still challenging: how to turn application-level and business knowledge into added-value DSMLs? How to scale-up with their multiplication due to the various stakeholders and application domains of interest? I will review a decade of research activities dedicated to these questions. The challenge is twofold: to capture domain-specific knowledge into added-value DSLs while supporting their possible reuse and customization in other contexts; and to support the separation of concerns through the use of multiple DSLs while ensuring their automatic and correct integration.</span></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div id="magicdomid20" class=""></div>
<div id="magicdomid21" class=""><span class="i"><i>   15:30 - 16:00: coffee break</i></span></div>
<div id="magicdomid22" class=""><span class="">   16:00 - 16:30: </span><span class="b"><b>Automated Specialization of Configurable Systems</b></span><span class=""> (M. Acher, IRISA, UR1)</span></div>
<div id="magicdomid23" class=""><span class="">   16:30 - 17:00: </span><span class="b"><b>Distributed adaptive systems with Models@runtime using Kevoree</b></span><span class=""> (O. Barais, IRISA, UR1)</span></div>
<div id="magicdomid24" class=""></div>
<div id="magicdomid25" class="">
<ul class="list-indent2">
 	<li><span class="">Modern software applications are distributed and often operate in dynamic contexts, where requirements, assumptions about the environment,and usage profiles continuously change. These changes are difficult to predict and to anticipate at design time. The running software system should thus be able to react on its own, by dynamically adapting its behavior, in order to sustain a required quality ofservice. A key challenge is to provide the system with the necessary flexibility to perform self-adaptation, without compromising dependability. Models@Runtime is a paradigm aiming at transferring traditional modeling activities (focusing on quality, verification, and so on) performed by humans, to the running system. In this trend, Kevoree provides a models@runtime platform to design heterogeneous, distributed and adaptive applications based on the component based software engineering paradigm. Our goal on this talk is to discuss why models@runtime can help to provide generic solution for bulding reconfigurable system.  </span></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div id="magicdomid26" class=""></div>
<div id="magicdomid27" class=""><span class="">   17:00 - 17:30: </span><span class="b"><b>Building energy model to support efficient renewable-energy management</b></span><span class=""> (J. Bourcier, IRISA, UR1)</span></div>
<div id="magicdomid28" class=""></div>
<div id="magicdomid29" class="">
<ul class="list-indent2">
 	<li><span class="">We lead different activities to provide methodology to build consumption and production model using machine-nearning techniques.  Through the collaboration with 3 different partners, we explore how we can provide efficient energy models.</span></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div id="magicdomid30" class=""><span class="">        </span></div>
<div id="magicdomid31" class=""><span class="i"><i>    20:00-23:00: dinner (information to be added)</i></span></div>
