+++
date = "2016-02-18 13:00:00"
title = "Diverse coffee - Kwaku"
abstract = "Dear colleagues, this Thursday we will enjoy the presentation of our colleagueKwaku. Please find the abstract below. Genetic Improvement(GI) is theapplication of evolutionary and search-based optimisation methods to theimprovement of existing software. Online Genetic Improvement(OGI) concerns theembedding of the Genetic Improvement process inside the software system beingimproved. The target systems can therefore be improved online without requiringthe system to be taken offline. Kwaku will present a tool framework calledECSELR that enables OGI in software systems on the JVM. With ECSELR, thesesoftware systems are genetically improved based on their environment. ECSELRcan, therefore be used to autonomously improve software systems. It enables thegenetic improvement of perpetually running systems without the need of costlydowntime. IMPORTANT: This talk is going to be in English and there are noplanned mentions to Erlang."
abstract_short = "Dear colleagues, this Thursday we will enjoy the presentation of our colleagueKwaku. Please find the abstract below. Genetic Improvement(GI) is theapplication of evolutionary and search-based optimisation methods to theimprovement of existing software. Online Genetic Improvement(OGI) concerns theembedding of the Genetic Improvement process inside the software system beingimproved. The target systems can therefore be improved online without requiringthe system to be taken offline. Kwaku will present a tool framework calledECSELR that enables OGI in software systems on the JVM. With ECSELR, thesesoftware systems are genetically improved based on their environment. ECSELRcan, therefore be used to autonomously improve software systems. It enables thegenetic improvement of perpetually running systems without the need of costlydowntime. IMPORTANT: This talk is going to be in English and there are noplanned mentions to Erlang."
event = "DiverSE coffee"
event_url = ""
location = "Rennes, France"
selected = false
math = false
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""


[header]

#image = "talks/20171012.png"
caption = "French :fr:"
+++


Dear colleagues, 

this Thursday we will enjoy the presentation of our colleague Kwaku. 
Please find the abstract below.


Genetic Improvement(GI) is the application of evolutionary and
search-based optimisation methods to the improvement of existing
software. Online Genetic Improvement(OGI) concerns the embedding of the
Genetic Improvement process inside the software system being improved.
The target systems can therefore be improved online without requiring
the system to be taken offline.
Kwaku will present a tool framework called ECSELR that enables OGI in software
systems on the JVM. With ECSELR, these software systems are genetically
improved based on their environment. ECSELR can, therefore be used to
autonomously improve software systems. It enables the genetic
improvement of perpetually running systems without the need of costly
downtime."

IMPORTANT: This talk is going to be in English and there are no planned mentions to Erlang.
