+++
date = "2019-12-18T09:00:00"
title = "On modularity and performance of External Domain-Specific Language implementations"
abstract = "Model-Driven Engineering (MDE) aims at supporting Domain Experts when developing complex systems, by separating concerns through the use of models. Models are representations of specific aspects of a system and are defined using relevant abstractions. Such abstractions are defined using Domain-Specific Languages (DSLs). DSLs are created with specialized Integrated Development Environment (IDE), called language workbenches. Language workbenches assist the engineering of languages by offering useful language abstractions. First, these abstractions have the benefit of providing the relevant level of abstraction for the specification of languages. Second, they address the concerns inherent to software development, such as modularity or testability. However, the benefits of these abstractions can be lost when translated to language service implementations (e.g., editors, interpreters, debuggers). This has many drawbacks, especially in terms of reusability and performance. Domain Experts are subject to these limitations and are forced to reason in terms of the low-level intricacies of language services implementation. These problems can be alleviated by exploiting the information provided by the abstractions available in the DSL specifications. To do so, we propose two new implementation patterns supporting reuse and performances, and a systematic translation of language specifications to these patterns. The first implementation pattern tackles language reuse and is called REVISITOR. The REVISITOR pattern allows the safe and modular reuse of languages, both syntactically and semantically, while relying solely on mainstream object-oriented programming concepts. The second implementation pattern addresses language performances. Language performances are improved by introducing language-specific optimizations. These optimizations are automatically introduced without being intrusive of the usual language development methods. We seamlessly implement our approaches on top of the Eclipse IDE ecosystem by using two metalanguages: Ecore and ALE. Ecore supports the specification of abstract syntaxes in the form of metamodels. Ecore is provided by the de facto industrial standard Eclipse Modeling Framework (EMF). ALE supports the modular specification of language semantics on top of Ecore metamodels. We provide two compilers for these metalanguages. They support respectively the compilation of language specifications to the REVISITOR pattern and the automatic introduction of performance-specific optimizations in DSL interpreter implementations. We evaluate the benefits of our approaches by implementing a varied selection of heterogeneous DSLs. Our contributions make possible the implementation of reusable or efficient DSLs for Domain Experts — while currently separated, future work aims to integrate them. In practice, our approach is both non-intrusive of the usual methodology of language engineering and based on automated code generation. Consequently, our approach is directly applicable to industrial contexts and can be integrated with legacy DSLs artifacts."
event = "PhD. Defense"
location = "Université de Rennes 1, Rennes, France"
speaker = "Manuel Leduc"
url_pdf = "https://hal.inria.fr/tel-02418676/document"
+++