---
title: Post-Doctoral researcher position "vulnerabilities in code generated by LLMs (TAP project)"
starts: now (early 2025) 
duration: 13 months, extendable (depending on experience) to 26 to 36 months
position: postdoc
level: PhD
contact: Olivier Barais, Olivier Zendra.
email: Olivier.Barais@inria.fr; Olivier.Zendra@inria.fr
pdf: /pdf/2024-1212_Post-doctoral_researcher_M_F_vulnerabilities_in_code_generated_by_LLMs_TAP_project.pdf
---

# Post-doctoral researcher (M/F): vulnerabilities in code generated by LLMs (TAP project)

**Contract type**: Fixed-term contract  
**Start date**: As soon as possible  
**Duration**: 13 months, extendable (depending on experience) to 26 to 36 months  
**Required degree level**: PhD degree

# Scientific and Technical Context

## The TAP Project (Trustworthy Automatic Programming)

TAP is a joint project between CNRS-IPAL-IRISA and NUS (National University of Singapore), funded by the DGA and its Singaporean counterpart.

Over the last 60 to 70 years, programming has dominated computer science, involving the capture of intentions and code production. Formal specifications have gained prominence thanks to advances in system modeling and design, allowing for more precise goal capture. Despite these advancements, software engineers are often reluctant to write formal specifications. This leads to the absence of formal declarations of intent for large software systems, making debugging and error correction difficult. In the absence of formal intent capture, testing and analysis have been used to develop reliable codebases. Testing aims to achieve broader behavioral coverage, employing test oracles. Fuzzing approaches have become significant over the past decade. However, achieving functional correctness of software without in-depth formal requirements remains a challenging goal.

Recent advances in automatic code generation from large language models (LLMs) provide a new perspective. It is now conceivable to program based on natural language specifications using LLM code generation, suggesting that auto-coding is feasible. This raises the issue of the correctness and security of code automatically generated by LLMs and the conditions under which this code can be trusted.

The **TAP Project** focuses specifically on these aspects. The project aims to identify vulnerabilities in LLM-generated code, analyze and classify these vulnerabilities, and determine if certain types of vulnerabilities are more common in LLM-generated code compared to human-written code. The project also seeks to automate the correction of these vulnerabilities and improve LLMs concerning code vulnerabilities.

# Tasks and Responsibilities

The DiverSE team's main objective for this project is to identify vulnerabilities in code generated by LLMs. To achieve this objective, we will set up a system capable of automatically generating datasets of vulnerabilities. This will be achieved by using the web catalogues available for vulnerabilities and by modelling these vulnerabilities in such a way as to integrate them seamlessly into a test tool, enabling us to analyse the code and libraries generated by LLM. The target languages will primarily be C and Java, due to their widespread use and in order to maximise the impact of our work.

In this context, the DiverSE team (in close collaboration with the IPAL laboratory and the DGA) is recruiting a **post-doctoral researcher on a fixed-term contract for a period of 13 months, extendable (depending on experience) to 26 to 36 months**, who will be under the scientific and technical responsibility of permanent members of the team involved in the project. This person will be responsible for carrying out and supervising research into methods and techniques related to the DiverSE objectives set out above. Synergies with other work carried out by the team will also be explored and exploited. The results of our work will be used by our NUS partners in Singapore.

**Main tasks:**

* carry out research work related to the TAP project (vulnerability detection, code analysis)  
* design and build prototype tools  
* disseminate results (publications in journals and conferences, presentations, etc.)  
* interacting with other researchers and technical staff involved in the TAP project  
* writing deliverables related to the TAP project

**Secondary tasks:**

* supervise research work related to the TAP project (vulnerability detection, code analysis)

The position may involve travel in France and abroad, including air travel.

# Skills

* Necessary:  
  * Ability to do **research** (ie. PhD)  
  * Ability to interact in an international environment, in written and spoken **English**  
  * **AI/LLMs and/or code analysis and/or cybersecurity**  
* Appreciated:  
  * Software design and development  
  * Knowledge of C and Java  
  * Teamwork and autonomy

# Work Environment

**IRISA (Research Institute of Computer Science and Random Systems)** is one of France's largest research laboratories in computer science and information technology, with over 850 members. Organized into seven scientific departments, IRISA focuses on key areas such as bioinformatics, system security, software architectures, virtual reality, big data analysis, and artificial intelligence.

IRISA is part of a dynamic regional ecosystem, recognized for its expertise through international scientific collaborations. Focused on the future of computer science, IRISA plays a key role in digital transformation, cybersecurity, health, environment, transportation, robotics, energy, and AI.

The **DiverSE research team** specializes in software engineering techniques for building reliable and efficient applications, focusing on areas such as cybersecurity and LLMs. The team consists of about 15 permanent members (Inria and CNRS researchers, university lecturers, including 3 members of the French University Institute), 15 PhD students, several engineers, and a DGA associate engineer. DiverSE is internationally recognized and maintains strong ties with global, national, and local industries. The team also prides itself on a friendly and engaging work atmosphere.

The position is located in a sector covered by the protection of scientific and technical potential (PPST), and therefore requires, in accordance with the regulations, that your arrival be authorised by the competent authority of the MESR.

# Why Join Us?

**Project Highlights**:  
This project offers unique opportunities due to its application domain, ambition, international network, and potential impact. It lies at the core of DiverSE's activities and involves collaboration with a dynamic team in Singapore.

**Ambition**:  
You will contribute to a worldwide open-source project. In an era where source code security is a strategic concern, TAP aims to address this challenge directly. This project could also lay the groundwork for stronger collaboration between DiverSE and NUS, enhancing national, European, and global sovereignty and security in software engineering, AI, LLMs, and cybersecurity.

**Network**:  
TAP involves frequent interactions with partners from NUS and IPAL. Visits to Singapore may be arranged based on your preferences. The project offers opportunities to engage with various research, innovation, and industry transfer projects within and beyond the DiverSE team. After the project, you'll be one of the (many) alumni of the DiverSE team, most of whom are still in touch.

**Impact**:  
The exponential growth of LLM usage for code generation ensures significant impact potential. Automating the securing of LLM-generated code addresses a pressing global need, with substantial cybersecurity implications.

# Benefits

* Remote work up to 2 days per week.  
* Partial reimbursement of public transport or sustainable mobility costs.  
* Partial coverage of health insurance costs.  
* Subsidized on-site dining.  
* Free car and bicycle parking; bus stop 5 minutes away; metro station 10 minutes away.

# Salary

Monthly salary depending on experience, from  **€3,417 gross** (€2,746 net) to **€4,618 gross** (€3,732 net)

# Location

**Campus de Beaulieu, IRISA/Inria Rennes**  
Building 12  
263 Avenue du Général Leclerc  
35042 RENNES Cedex, France

# Contacts

* **Olivier BARAIS**, Professor, University of Rennes: Olivier.Barais@irisa.fr  
* **Olivier ZENDRA**, Researcher, Inria: Olivier.Zendra@inria.fr


